Rewrite result-output getting started doc (#813)
grafana/k6-docs: src/data/markdown/translated-guides/en/01 Getting started/04 Results Output.md

excerpt: 'For basic tests, the top-level summary that k6 provides might be enough. For detailed analysis, you can stream all data your test outputs to an external source.'
---

As k6 starts generating load, it also starts generating _metrics_.
These metrics provide quantitative data to help you interpret test results.

k6 generates many metrics about the load that your test generates and about how the system under test (SUT) responds to this load.
Broadly, you can analyze metrics in two ways:
- As summary statistics, in an _end-of-test-summary_ report.

> - In granular, point-by-point detail. That is, as _time-series data_.

Author: ```suggestion
- As _time-series data_, in granular, point-by-poas to detail
```

- You can stream the results to one or multiple of the services of your choice.

## Built-in and custom metrics

**Documentation:** [Using metrics](/using-k6/metrics)

k6 comes with a built-in set of metrics about the load generated and about the system response.
Key metrics include:
- `iterations`, the total number of iterations
- `http_req_failed`, the total number of failed requests
- `http_req_duration`, the end-to-end time of all requests (that is, the total latency)
     - `expected_response:true`, the end-to-end time of successful requests (failed requests often have faster responses)

You can also use [_checks_](/using-k6/checks) to make metrics from any boolean expression.
For example, you can check that a response body has a certain text string.

### Applications of metrics

You can do further operations on metrics to build your analysis and test logic.
For example, you can derive [custom metrics](/using-k6/metrics/#custom-metrics) from any default metric type, be it a trend, rate, count, or gauge (that is, a maximum value).

Another useful application of metrics is in combination with [_thresholds_](/using-k6/thresholds).

> With thresholds, you can use metrics to set performance goals, and abort the test when performance degrades beyond the threshold point.

Author: ```suggestion
With thresholds, you can use metrics to set performance goals and abort the test when performance degrades beyond the threshold point.
```

![k6 results - console/stdout output](./images/k6-results-stdout.png)

The end-of-test-summary shows aggregated statistical values for your result metrics, including:
- Median and average values
- Minimum and maximum values
- p90, p95, and p99 values

If this default report is unsuitable, you can change the trend stats with
the [`--summary-trend-stats`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/k6-options/reference#summary-trend-stats) option.
You can also change the time unit with 
the [`--summary-time-unit`](/using-k6/k6-options/reference#summary-time-unit) option.

For example, this command displays only the median, p95, and p99.9 values,
and it presents the statistics in milliseconds instead of seconds.

```sh
k6 run --iterations=100 --vus=10 \
--summary-trend-stats="med,p(95),p(99.9)" --summary-time-unit="ms" script.js
```

<Blockquote mod="note" title="">

With a single iteration and VU, the min, max, median, average, and p values would all be the same.

</Blockquote>

### Custom reports with `handleSummary()`

At the end of the test, k6 automatically creates an object with all aggregated statistics.

> To completely customize the end-of-test summary,
> you can use the `handleSummary()` function to process this object into any text format.For example, the community project [k6 reporter](https://github.com/benc-uk/k6-reporter) uses `handleSummary()` to make an HTML report from your k6 summary metrics.

Author: ```suggestion
To completely customize the end-of-test summary,
you can use the `handleSummary()` function to process this object into any text format. For example, the community project [k6 reporter](https://github.com/benc-uk/k6-reporter) uses `handleSummary()` to make an HTML report from your k6 summary metrics.
```

excerpt: 'For basic tests, the top-level summary that k6 provides might be enough. For detailed analysis, you can stream all data your test outputs to an external source.'
---

> As a test runs, k6 starts generating _metrics_.
> You can use these metrics to interpret test results.

Author: ```suggestion
As k6 generates load for your test, it also takes measurements of the performance of the system.
You can use these measurements, called _metrics_, to interpret test results.
```

> These metrics provide quantitative data to help you interpret test results.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use these metrics to interpret test results.
```

Key metrics include:
- `iterations`, the total number of iterations
- `http_req_failed`, the total number of failed requests
- `http_req_duration`, the end-to-end time of all requests (that is, the total latency)
   - `expected_response:true`, the end-to-end time of successful requests (failed requests often have faster responses)

## End-of-test-summary report

**Documentation**: [End-of-test-summary report](results-visualization/end-of-test-summary/)

By default, k6 prints summarized results to `stdout`.

When you run a test, k6 outputs a plain-text logo, your test progress, and some test details.
After the test finishes, k6 prints the full details and summary statistics of the test metrics.

![k6 results - console/stdout output](./images/k6-results-stdout.png)

The end-of-test-summary shows aggregated statistical values for your result metrics, including:
- Median and average values
- Minimum and maximum values
- p90, p95, and p99 values

If this default report is unsuitable, you can change the trend stats with
the [`--summary-trend-stats`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/k6-options/reference#summary-trend-stats) option.
You can also change the time unit with 

> the [`--summary-time-unit`](/using-k6/k6-options/reference#summary-time-unit) option.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
the [`--summary-time-unit`](/using-k6/k6-options/reference#summary-time-unit) option.
```

For example, this command displays only the median, p95, and p99.9 values,
and it presents the statistics in milliseconds instead of seconds.

```sh
k6 run --iterations=100 --vus=10 \
--summary-trend-stats="med,p(95),p(99.9)" --summary-time-unit="ms" script.js
```

<Blockquote mod="note" title="">

With a single iteration and VU, the min, max, median, average, and p values would all be the same.

</Blockquote>

<DescriptionList>

> Custom reports with `handleSummary()`

Author: ```suggestion
### Custom reports with `handleSummary()`

```

> : At the end of the test, k6 automatically creates an object with all aggregated statistics.
> To completely customize the end-of-test summary,
> you can use the `handleSummary()` function to process this object into any text format.
> : For example, the community project [k6 reporter](https://github.com/benc-uk/k6-reporter) uses `handleSummary()` to make an HTML report from your k6 summary metrics.

Author: ```suggestion
At the end of the test, k6 automatically creates an object with all aggregated statistics.

To completely customize the end-of-test summary,
you can use the `handleSummary()` function to process this object into any text format.For example, the community project [k6 reporter](https://github.com/benc-uk/k6-reporter) uses `handleSummary()` to make an HTML report from your k6 summary metrics.
```

> </DescriptionList>

Author: ```suggestion
```

You can use these measurements, called _metrics_, to interpret test results.

k6 generates many metrics about the load that your test generates and how the system under test (SUT) responds to this load.
Broadly, you can analyze metrics in two ways:
- As summary statistics, in an _end-of-test-summary_ report.
- As _time-series data_, in granular, point-by-point detail

![A diagram of the two broad ways to handle results: aggregated and granular](./images/k6-results-diagram.png)

You can customize almost every aspect of k6 result output:
- You can create your custom metrics
- You can configure new summary statistics and print them not only to `stdout` but also as HTML, JSON, or any text format.
- You can stream the results to one or multiple of the services of your choice.

## Built-in and custom metrics

**Documentation:** [Using metrics](/using-k6/metrics)

k6 comes with a built-in set of metrics about the load generated and the system response.
Key metrics include:
- `iterations`, the total number of iterations
- `http_req_failed`, the total number of failed requests
- `http_req_duration`, the end-to-end time of all requests (that is, the total latency)

>    - `expected_response:true`, the end-to-end time of successful requests (failed requests often have faster responses)

Reviewer: suggest removing `expected_response:true`. It is a more advanced case.

Something like:

- `http_req_duration`, the end-to-end time of all requests (that is, the total latency)
- `http_req_failed`, the total number of failed requests
-  `data_received`, the total amount of data received

Author: I tried to show at least one metric that gives data about the test itself (iterations). And I think expected_response true is actually among the most useful metrics. This is what I heard in discussion with DevRel.

Keeping both in, but open to changing in future commits.

## End-of-test-summary report

**Documentation**: [End-of-test-summary report](results-visualization/end-of-test-summary/)

By default, k6 prints summarized results to `stdout`.

When you run a test, k6 outputs a plain-text logo, your test progress, and some test details.
After the test finishes, k6 prints the full details and summary statistics of the test metrics.

![k6 results - console/stdout output](./images/k6-results-stdout.png)

The end-of-test-summary shows aggregated statistical values for your result metrics, including:
- Median and average values
- Minimum and maximum values
- p90, p95, and p99 values

> If this default report is unsuitable, you can change the trend stats with

Author: For now, I'm going to keep it in, since I think many SREs would like more precise p-values, but I'm open to removing it.

> If this default report is unsuitable, you can change the trend stats with

Author: The time unit is perhaps too much info, though. :thinking:

> If this default report is unsuitable, you can change the trend stats with

Author: I've removed the time option.

the [`--summary-trend-stats`](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/k6-options/reference#summary-trend-stats) option.
You can also change the time unit with 
the [`--summary-time-unit`](/using-k6/k6-options/reference#summary-time-unit) option.

For example, this command displays only the median, p95, and p99.9 values,
and it presents the statistics in milliseconds instead of seconds.

```sh
k6 run --iterations=100 --vus=10 \
--summary-trend-stats="med,p(95),p(99.9)" --summary-time-unit="ms" script.js
```

> <Blockquote mod="note" title="">

Reviewer: Because the Getting Started intro is large, I'd remove this clarification.

With a single iteration and VU, the min, max, median, average, and p values would all be the same.

</Blockquote>

### Custom reports with `handleSummary()`

At the end of the test, k6 automatically creates an object with all aggregated statistics.
To completely customize the end-of-test summary,

> you can use the `handleSummary()` function to process this object into any text format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can use the `handleSummary()` function to process this object into any text format: XML, HTML, JSON, etc.
```

> For example, the community project [k6 reporter](https://github.com/benc-uk/k6-reporter) uses `handleSummary()` to make an HTML report from your k6 summary metrics.

Reviewer: We can remove this sentence and add the link previously when listing the HTML example.

Author: It's one paragraph now.

### Multiple outputs

> You can also send metrics simultaneously to several outputs

Reviewer: Another suggestion,  removing here the H3 heading and code example. 

I could be as a note, below the list of outputs.

> You can also send metrics simultaneously to several outputs by using multiple CLI --out flags.

Author: Good idea, fixed.

### Multiple outputs

> You can also send metrics simultaneously to several outputs.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also send metrics simultaneously to several outputs
```

> To do so, set separate arguments for multiple CLI `--out` flags.

Author: ```suggestion
by using multiple CLI `--out` flags:
```
